So I wanna start with some
thoughts on how to fix bugs.
And this is just a very generic cycle
that you could make up about really just
about anything, but I'm gonna use it
to kinda organize my thoughts here.
So fixing bugs is about
identifying that a bug exists,
because many times we don't even know that
a bug is happening until far too late.
Isolating where the bug is in
the overall system, resolving it,
and then finally preventing it
from happening in the future.
And so
I have some thoughts on each one of these.
You can identify bugs at lots of different
phases of the development cycle.
During development,
like when we're actually writing it,
we'll catch bugs all the time.
I catch bugs all the time just
as I'm writing something and
I refresh the page and,
that doesn't look right.
I must have screwed something up.
I just caught a bug.
If I don't catch it and I pass it on,
maybe my buddy goes through and tests it,
or maybe I'm lucky enough to have a feel
full QA department where I'm working.
Maybe they'll catch a bug
where I'm testing it.
If it goes all the way out into a real
environment, hopefully I'll have some sort
of monitoring technology to tell
me when a bug is happening.
And if none of those things happen,
maybe your users will tell you, hey,
your checkout form is screwed up.
I can't buy this thing and I really,
really need to have my widgets for
tomorrow.
And what's interesting about these things
is that the earlier you catch that bug,
the cheaper, better, and
faster everything is.
Now I can't say that how cheaper,
how better, how faster.
That's all dependent on your context.
But what I can say is that
it's definitely cheaper for
the developer themselves
to find the bug and
fix it in their minds than it is to wait
all the way until the user reports it.
Especially because if
you wait all the way for
the users to report it,
a fraction of them won't even bother.
They'll just move on and
try something else and
they'll go to Facebook and
buy from the other store or whatever.
So if you fall all the way out there,
that's the worst possible case
because you're losing revenue.
You're losing customers.
You're losing users.
You're losing whatever it is you're
trying to do with your web application.
Once we know that there's a bug,
the developer,
we need to take over and start trying to
understand where does this bug exist?
And there can be lots of different
things we need to narrow down.
There's context that we need to
understand about where the bug happened.
What browsers is it happening in?
Is it only happening in Chrome,
Chrome and Safari?
Is it happening everywhere?
Is it only IE9?
Where does it happen?
Because that can help point at where
the root cause is, on whether or
not it's an issue with some interaction,
some compatibility of an API you're using.
What pages is it happening on?
Often you'll have different pieces of
JavaScript running on different URLs.
Is it happening to one user,
a certain class of users, all users?
And what scripts
are generating these errors?
If you have that, you also need to
understand this timeline of events.
A web application is this
incredibly complex state machine.
Even if you're building an application
that probably is maintaining some state.
And then the DOM itself
is another set of state.
And the browser is another set of state.
And then every remote API you're
talking to has another set of state,
with what cookies, and tokens, and
remote sessions are being kept.
And so you have all of these
different state machines operating.
What series of events got you into
the situation where a bug existed?
How do we go back through and
understand those events so
that we can isolate where
the bug is coming from?
So isolating the bug is about
understanding your context,
understanding the timeline of how
did you get into this situation, and
using those two things to dig into
the root cause of why bug a happened.
Once you actually know that,
we can begin to actually resolve the bug.
Now, this is very contextual dependent
of what bug are you solving.
A very interesting conversation tends
to happen at this phase, especially if
it's 11:30 on a Friday night and
you have to get this bug out right away.
What do you fix?
Do you just make the small hacky duct
tape change that you need to do to get
the thing fixed and move on with your day?
Or do you fix it the,
quote unquote, right way and
change the 17 files that need to go into,
be whatever the architects claimed was
the right way to solve the problem?
And so you need to have a conversation
maybe just with yourself or
maybe with your team about the risk,
change, and impact of your app.
What are those factors for you?
An application has a different impact on
the world based on what you're doing.
You wouldn't make the same decisions
if you were writing software for
a pacemaker as if you're writing
software for an e-commerce API,
as if you're writing software for
a live video broadcast,
or a JavaScript error monitoring tool.
We all have a different
idea of what is the impact
to different levels of bugs with our app.
And what is the risk of making
changes at different point in time?
How risky is it to deploy for you?
Some systems have a huge amount of
maturity built up that they can deploy all
the time and have very, very low risk.
Because they have all the testing and
monitoring and
analytics tools to know
when something goes wrong.
But if you don't have that,
if deployment is a scary, risky thing for
you, you can't change as much and
expect good results.
We'll talk about that more.
And finally, prevention.
Once you've actually fixed it,
fixed a bug,
how do you prevent it
from happening again?
Now there's a couple of different tools
we can think about on how to do that.
First is regression tests.
How many people have heard
of regression tests?
So a regression test is not
like a different kind of test.
It's not like a different scope
of testing like unit testing,
integration testing,
end-to-end testing, regression testing.
A regression test is just
a test in any of those scopes
that you use to prevent
a bug from re-occurring.
So if you have a bug that you just
hit yourself in the head on like,
I can't believe I let that happen.
That might be a good candidate to write a
regression test somewhere in your code so
that you make sure you don't
make that same mistake again.
You can also prevent bugs from
happening by changing your processes.
And by processes, I mean both the manual,
corporate processes that a lot of us have
to adhere to, but also just automation.
Automated scripts, deployments, continuous
integration, those sort of things.
Can we make changes to those sort
of things that will prevent a bug
from happening?
And thinking about that
after we've pulled a bug or
fixed a bug is important to
prevent it from happening again.
Or some places go too deep on this.
And so sometimes the right
solution is to do nothing.
Both adding tests to your code and
adding process have a cost.
They'll cost you in maintenance.
They'll cost you in
slowing down development.
a lot of different ways.
So think about the bug that you
just solved and know whether or not
is it worth raising your cost structure
to prevent it from happening again?
Or was it just a silly little trivial
thing that you'll never make that
mistake again.
So some things to think about to
prevent bugs, regression tests,
changing some processes, or doing nothing.
That's really all I had to
say about how to fix bugs.
We're gonna go in and
do a lot more examples now.